In this lecture we are going to talk about financial applications of machine learning.
So we would like to predict stock prices in the future.
So first of all what are stocks stocks or shares.
Are the ownership of a small piece of a company.
So if you have a good idea you can raise capital by selling off future profits in the form of shares.
This is how most of the startups begin.
OK.
Why is it good to buy stocks.
First of all because of dividends plus any growth in the stock's value.
So if you expect that the stock will rise in value in the future then you maintain a long position.
And if you believe the price of the stock will decrease in value then you will maintain a short position.
That's the main difference between loan position and short position.
OK so let's suppose the situation that we have the price of the stock this is the Ass t.
And of course we have the time.
Of course the price of the stock will fluctuate.
It can be described by brownian motion or Havener process but this is why machine learning is good because
we don't have to build a model.
I mean we don't have to care about standard normal distributions.
We don't have to care about black issues.
And so while we just want to build a data set what does it mean that we have to construct features and
a target variable.
In this case in our implementation the features are going to be daily returns the daily return yesterday.
This is the leg one leg two is the daily return two days ago X3 is the daily return at three days ago
and so on.
So we have the daily return two days ago one day ago and yesterday and we would like to make a prediction
later.
The stock price went up or went down.
Of course it is historical data.
So we know the direction in this case it is up what about the next one as you can see we have shifted
the features once that to the right and we are going to take this item as the day return.
Two days ago this is the daily return of one day ago.
This is the daily return yesterday.
What about that direction.
Again it is up and this is how we can construct the data set as far as the daily returns are concerned.
These are going to be the features and the direction which is going to be the target where I am.
Why is it good.
Because if we train our Mesrine learning algorithm on a data set like this then we can predict the stock
price to morrow.
If we have a lag one like 2 x 3 maybe we are able to approximate whether the stock price will increase
in value or decrease in value.
Okay this is what we are going to talk about.
Thanks for watching.